.TH cmdcalc 1 "2021-03-10" "2.3"

.SH NAME
cmdcalc - a command-line calculater
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cmdcalc\fR --help
.RE
.B cmdcalc\fR --version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cmdcalc
is a simple command-line calculator.
.RE
It supports variables, functions and arrays.

.SH DATA TYPES
.B
integer
.RE
.RS 3
An
.B
integral
number.
.RE

.B
string
.RE
.RS 3
A
.B
character literal.
.RE

.B
float
.RE
.RS 3
A
.B
real
number.
.RE

.B
empty
.RE
.RS 3
A
.B
placeholder
value.
.RE

.B
invalid
.RE
.RS 3
A value indicating that an
.B
error
occured.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
(3 + 2)
.RE
.RS 3
A simple expression.
.RE

x = 42
.RE
.RS 3
Assign the value
.B
42
to the variable
.B
x.
.RE

.B
func
f(x, y) = x * y
.RE
.RS 3
Define a function
.B
f
that calculates the product of
.B
x
and
.B
y.
.RE

x = 
.B
append\fR([3, 2], 1)
.RE
.RS 3
Append the integer
.B
1
to the array
.B
[3, 2]
and assign the result to
.B
x.
.RE

.B
funcs
.RE
.RS 3
Print out all the defined functions.
.RE

.B
vars
.RE
.RS 3
Print out all the defined variables.
.RE

.SH BUILTIN FUNCTIONS
.B
exit(code)
.RE
.RS 3
Exit the program with an optional
.B
exit code.
.RE

.B
append(a, ...)
.RE
.RS 3
.B
Concatenate
data to an
.B
array
and return the result.
.RE

.B
equals(x, y)
.RE
.RS 3
Test if the two arguments are
.B
equal.
.RE

.B
integer(x)
.RE
.B
float(x)
.RE
.B
string(x)
.RE
.RS 3
Type conversion functions.
.RE

.B
empty()
.RE
.B
invalid()
.RE
.RS 3
Generating the
.B
empty
and
.B
invalid
values respectively.
.RE

.B
length(x)
.RE
.RS 3
Getting the 
.B
length
of an
.B
array
or
.B string.
.RE

.B
and(x, y)
.RE
.B
or(x, y)
.RE
.B
not(x)
.RE
.RS 3
Perform
.B
bitwise
AND, OR and NOT operation on given arguments.
.RE

.B
sqrt(x)
.RE
.RS 3
Calculating the
.B
square root
of the given argument.
.RE

.B
sin(x)
.RE
.B
cos(x)
.RE
.B
tan(x)
.RE
.RS 3
Trigonometric functions.
.RE

.B
log(x)
.RE
.B
log10(x)
.RE
.B
log2(x)
.RE
.RS 3
Logarithmic functions.
.RE

.B
typestr(x)
.RE
.RS 3
Getting the
.B
type
of
.B
x.
.RE

.B
print(...)
.RE
.RS 3
Printing values to the screen
.RE

.B
help()
.RE
.RS 3
Printing a simple
.B
help
message to the screen.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Benjamin Stürz <benni@stuerz.xyz>
.RE

.SH REPORTING BUGS
GitHub page: <https://github.com/Benni3D/cmdcalc>

.SH SEE ALSO
.B
bc
(1)


